>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
if we hop into the slides,
I'll show you in the slides and
I'll actually show you in the code, and so
we have a notification service,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
we are declaring a subject, so
just think of the subject is,
it's an observer, or it actually can
broadcast and it can also consume.
So subject = new Subject, and
then we're creating an observable stream.
And so we're saying notifications,
we're using the dollar sign, so
this is kind of idiomatic.
When you have something that
it's not a notification,
it's actually an observable wrapped, this
notification's wrapped in an observable.
A lot of times you'll see that dollar sign
to indicate, this is an observable stream.
And so we're saying,
take the subject but give me just, or
give me the subject but
operate as an observable.
So just think of, we have subject and
we're exposing it as an observable.
Then we have an emit method.
A notification comes in and
we are saying this.subject.next.
So if you remember, an observable has
three methods, next, error, and complete.
So we are able to actually control
what happens in the observable
portion of the subject, and
this is the entirety of this event bus.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I feel like
there is a question coming,
it's almost like a sneeze, you're
like [SOUND] why are you doing this?
>> Speaker 2: So
you can subscribe to this event bus, and
anyone can push notifications
to the syllabus?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, this event bus is
global, as long as the notification
service classes are in that [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well it's in the
notifications, so it's global in the sense
if you can consume the notification
service as a dependency.
So this right here,
the subject is stateless.
In other words, it takes something in and
it broadcasts it.
But you have a few variations of this,
most notably the behavior subject.
And what that does is it's
actually maintains state.
So as you put something in, it will
actually store that last value, and
so when somebody subscribes,
they get it, okay.
Here's the kicker.
If you go and
look at the NGRX source code,
how do you think the store is working?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So you have this
global where the single state tree in your
application, and whenever it changes
your application is notified.
State is flowing down.
So what makes NGRX so
awesome is under the hood they have
a behavior subject that's storing
the state for your entire application.
And whenever it changes, it's simply
calling subject.next and sending it down.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so now we inject
the notification service, this.ns, and
we're grabbing the notifications stream or
observable and
we're simply saying, hey, .subscribe.
If something comes in, g ahead and
pass it on to the snack bar.
So snack bar is just
an angular material component.
That's what you're seeing at the bottom.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
that's how that's working.
>> Speaker 2: This is the consumer?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes, so
this is in the app component.
So now let me show you in the code, so
I'll prove to you that there's nothing up
my sleeves, that this is indeed happening.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So if we go to
the notification service, this is it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Something comes in.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're broadcasting it
on the notification stream via subject.
>> Speaker 3: So if you wanted
an error notice you'd just [COUGH]
have a different method that you call?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You just call error.
Or let's say we're totally done with this,
we never need it complete.
So an observable has three main methods,
next, error, and complete.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so if something
goes wrong, you would then just call,
this.subject.error, and pass that along.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And we're exposing
the subject as an observable to the rest
of the application to subscribe to.
Inject it in, here we're just
saying subscribe to the stream.
Whenever something happens,
pass it on to the snack bar to show.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So this is very good
for showing application wide messaging,
like, hey, this notification,
this thing, happened.
It's also good, I've seen this and I've
used this frequently, for when you need
a modal that sits in front on top of your
application if something is loading.
So if you've ever done a remote
server call and you're like, hey,
I need this thing to basically turn on,
like a loading indicator or whatever.
This would be another example of this.
Is what you could do is,
in our code if we go to, let's say here.
Hypothetically you could
have something like,
(app.) loading, like app.loading.
And then what you would simply
say is ngIf= "loading".
And so under the hood this would be
some spinner, whatever the template is,
but then what you would do here is
loading, again with some more pseudo code.
We can do something like,
this.ls, for loading service,
I'm just making this up
off the top of my head.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: loading.subscribe,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: = this.loading =
loading.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And obviously it's
throwing out this cuz I haven't done this.
But then now you would just have a loading
service that would look just like this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You would just say
loading, or is loading, or toggle, or
whatever, and you would say,
this.subject.next, true.
And so in this case I've done is just true
or false, just toggling, true or false.
And the minute you set it in the service,
it broadcast it, picks it up here,
and you're bound to it in the template.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So with that said,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just
keep this in mind, what's happening here.
And if you are subscribed to the stream,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Does
it matter where it's coming from?
I mean, do you know?
All you know it that it's coming in,
it doesn't matter.
So just put your thinking caps on,
cuz this is where we're going, eventually.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What would happen
if we had a fire based stream in here,
that instead of doing it
here by calling it manually,
we were actually just tapping into a fire
based stream and broadcasting it out?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
I mean the stream is going to come.
Just feed it into
the notification service.
And the rest of
the application doesn't care,
it just knows that I'm on
the notification stream.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Something
to think about.
We'll see it.
>> Speaker 3: Can we see where it is
actually sending out a notification?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What do you mean?
Sure.
So this is gonna be pretty anticlimactic,
but I will oblige.
Let's go to newsletter component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So it's just this,
I'm just calling it NS cuz I think
Form Builder was there, I'm like,
I don't feel like typing this all out.
.omit and you just for whatever is in
there, just a normal function call.
It just takes that parameter and
just drops it into the stream, which then
gets consumed by the rest of the app.
So one, this is a very efficient way to
write this, I mean a few lines of code.
So we have a full fledged event bus here,
and
we've done it in, I don't know.
If I wanted to get concise about this,
it's about 12 lines of code.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And it very
efficiently communicates something to
the rest of the application and
pushes it out.
Control flow, and this is in fact for
the most part, how Redux works.
So the beauty of Redux is that somebody
could write it in about ten minutes
if you can believe it.
I can sit down and
write a version of Redux in ten minutes.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The reason being,
and so I know for a fact Rob Bermalt,
he wrote the first version
of NGRX in a weekend,
because all it's doing under the hood
is basically something like this.
Really interesting.
Uh-huh.
>> Speaker 2: So
say you were, I don't know,
say it couldn't save your
email in the newsletter.
Would you have your error notification in
a different component that's accessible
to the rest of the app, or would you
put it in here like as an if else?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: No, I mean so
let's say there was an error.
>> Speaker 3: Dev calling emits,
it would call error.
Where you went ns.emit,
here you would say-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I mean I wouldn't
even, at which point I would
just work on the styling.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
let's say it went totally wrong,
and where's this coming from, here?
Could say something went wrong, and
we know about it in this method.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Same thing.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
there's things, we can flush this out.
So you can do custom styling, maybe
you wanna be, severity or alert level,
info or air or whatever, and
then you would visually display it.
But I would still just use
that same notification bus,
use the same component to display it.
In then, seriously,
now in just a couple lines of code we now
have this global notification thing that's
well encapsulated and really stable.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
just the same thing over again.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yep.